# AWS 
- Amazon S3 is the core object storage service on AWS, allowing you to store an unlimited amount of data with very high durability.
- Common Amazon S3 use cases include backup and archive, web content, big data analytics, static website hosting, mobile and cloud-native application hosting, and disaster recovery.
- Amazon S3 is integrated with many other AWS cloud services, including AWS IAM, AWS KMS, Amazon EC2, Amazon EBS, Amazon EMR, Amazon DynamoDB, Amazon Redshift, Amazon SQS, AWS Lambda, and Amazon CloudFront.
- Object storage differs from traditional block and file storage. Block storage manages data at a device level as addressable blocks, while file storage manages data at the operating system level as files and folders. Object storage manages data as objects that contain both data and metadata, manipulated by an API.
- Amazon S3 buckets are containers for objects stored in Amazon S3. Bucket names must be globally unique. Each bucket is created in a specific region, and data does not leave the region unless explicitly copied by the user.
- Amazon S3 objects are files stored in buckets. Objects can be up to 5TB and can contain any kind of data. Objects contain both data and metadata and are identified by keys.  Each Amazon S3 object can be addressed by a unique URL formed by the web services endpoint, the bucket name, and the object key.
- Amazon S3 has a minimalistic API—create/delete a bucket, read/write/delete objects, list keys in a bucket—and uses a REST interface based on standard HTTP verbs—GET, PUT, POST, and DELETE. You can also use SDK wrapper libraries, the AWS CLI, and the AWS Management Console to work with Amazon S3.
- Amazon S3 is highly durable and highly available, designed for 11 nines of durability of objects in a given year and four nines of availability.
- Amazon S3 is eventually consistent, but offers read-after-write consistency for new object PUTs.
- Amazon S3 objects are private by default, accessible only to the owner. Objects can be marked public readable to make them accessible on the web. Controlled access may be provided to others using ACLs and AWS IAM and Amazon S3 bucket policies.
- Static websites can be hosted in an Amazon S3 bucket.
- Prefixes and delimiters may be used in key names to organize and navigate data hierarchically much like a traditional file system.
- Amazon S3 offers several storage classes suited to different use cases: Standard is designed for general-purpose data needing high performance and low latency. Standard-IA is for less frequently accessed data. RRS offers lower redundancy at lower cost for easily reproduced data. Amazon Glacier offers low-cost durable storage for archive and long-term backups that can are rarely accessed and can accept a three- to five-hour retrieval time.
- Object lifecycle management policies can be used to automatically move data between storage classes based on time.
- Amazon S3 data can be encrypted using server-side or client-side encryption, and encryption keys can be managed with Amazon KMS.
- Versioning and MFA Delete can be used to protect against accidental deletion.
- Cross-region replication can be used to automatically copy new objects from a source bucket in one region to a target bucket in another region.
- Pre-signed URLs grant time-limited permission to download objects and can be used to protect media and other web content from unauthorized “web scraping.”
- Multipart upload can be used to upload large objects, and Range GETs can be used to download portions of an Amazon S3 object or Amazon Glacier archive.
- Server access logs can be enabled on a bucket to track requestor, object, action, and response.
- Amazon S3 event notifications can be used to send an Amazon SQS or Amazon SNS message or to trigger an AWS Lambda function when an object is created or deleted.
- Amazon Glacier can be used as a standalone service or as a storage class in Amazon S3.
- Amazon Glacier stores data in archives, which are contained in vaults. You can have up to 1,000 vaults, and each vault can store an unlimited number of archives.
- Amazon Glacier vaults can be locked for compliance purposes.

- Know what amazon s3 is and what it is commonly used for. Amazon S3 is secure, durable, and highly scalable cloud storage that can be used to store an unlimited amount of data in almost any format using a simple web services interface. Common use cases include backup and archive, content storage and distribution, big data analytics, static website hosting, cloud-native application hosting, and disaster recovery. Understand how object storage differs from block and file storage. Amazon S3 cloud object storage manages data at the application level as objects using a REST API built on HTTP. Block storage manages data at the operating system level as numbered addressable blocks using protocols such as SCSI or Fibre Channel. File storage manages data as sharedfiles at the operating system level using a protocol such as CIFS or NFS. Understand the basics of Amazon S3. Amazon S3 stores data in objects that contain data and metadata. Objects are identified by a user-defined key and are stored in a simple flat folder called a bucket. Interfaces include a native REST interface, SDKs for many languages, an AWS CLI, and the AWS Management Console.
- Know how to create a bucket; how to upload, download, and delete objects; how to make objects public; and how to open an object URL. Understand the durability, availability, and data consistency model of Amazon S3. Amazon S3 standard storage is designed for 11 nines durability and four nines availability of objects over a year. Other storage classes differ. Amazon S3 is eventually consistent, but offers read-after-write consistency for PUTs to new objects.
- Know how to enable static website hosting on Amazon S3. To create a static website on Amazon S3, you must create a bucket with the website hostname, upload your static content and make it public, enable static website hosting on the bucket, and indicate the index and error page objects.
- Know how to protect your data on Amazon S3. Encrypt data in flight using HTTPS and at rest using SSE or client-side encryption. Enable versioning to keep multiple versions of an object in a bucket. Enable MFA Delete to protect against accidental deletion. Use ACLs Amazon S3 bucket policies and AWS IAM policies for access control. Use pre-signed URLs for time-limited download access. Use cross-region replication to automatically replicate data to another region.
- Know the use case for each of the Amazon S3 storage classes. Standard is for general purpose data that needs high durability, high performance, and low latency access. Standard- IA is for data that is less frequently accessed, but that needs the same performance and availability when accessed. RRS offers lower durability at lower cost for easily replicated data. Amazon Glacier is for storing rarely accessed archival data at lowest cost, when three- to fivehour retrieval time is acceptable.
- Know how to use lifecycle configuration rules. Lifecycle rules can be configured in the AWS Management Console or the APIs. Lifecycle configuration rules define actions to transition objects from one storage class to another based on time.
- Know how to use Amazon S3 event notifications. Event notifications are set at the bucket level and can trigger a message in Amazon SNS or Amazon SQS or an action in AWS Lambda in response to an upload or a delete of an object.
- Know the basics of amazon glacier as a standalone service. Data is stored in encrypted archives that can be as large as 40TB. Archives typically contain TAR or ZIP files. Vaults are containers for archives, and vaults can be locked for compliance.

### Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) and Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS)
- Compute is the amount of computational power required to fulfill your workload. Amazon EC2 is the primary service for providing compute to customers.
- The instance type defines the virtual hardware supporting the instance. Available instance types vary in vCPUs, memory, storage, and network performance to address nearly any workload.
- An AMI defines the initial software state of the instance, both OS and applications. There are four sources of AMIs: AWS published generic OSs, partner-published AMIs in the AWS Marketplace with software packages preinstalled, customer-generated AMIs from existing Amazon EC2 instances, and uploaded AMIs from virtual servers.
- Instances can be addressed by public DNS name, public IP address, or elastic IP address. To access a newly launched Linux instance, use the private half of the key pair to connect to the instance via SSH. To access a newly created Windows instance, use the private half of the key pair to decrypt the randomly initialized local administrator password.
- Network traffic in and out of an instance can be controlled by a virtual firewall called a security group. A security group allows rules that block traffic based on direction, port, protocol, and source/destination address.
- Bootstrapping allows you to run a script to initialize your instance with OS configurations and applications. This feature allows instances to configure themselves upon launch. Once an instance is launched, you can change its instance type or, for Amazon VPC instances, the security groups with which it is associated.
- The three pricing options for instances are On-Demand, Reserved Instance, and Spot. On-Demand has the highest per hour cost, requiring no up-front commitment and giving you complete control over the lifetime of the instance. Reserved Instances require a commitment and provide a reduced overall cost over the lifetime of the reservation. Spot Instances are idle compute capacity that AWS makes available based on bid prices from customers. The savings on the per-hour cost can be significant, but instances can be shut down when the bid price exceeds the customer’s current bid.
- Instance stores are block storage included with the hourly cost of the instance. The amount and type of storage available varies with the instance type. Instance stores terminate when the associated instance is stopped, so they should only be used for temporary data or in architectures providing redundancy such as Hadoop’s HDFS.
- Amazon EBS provides durable block storage in several types. Magnetic has the lowest cost per gigabyte and delivers modest performance. General-purpose SSD is cost-effective storage that can provide up to 10,000 IOPS. Provisioned IOPS SSD has the highest cost per gigabyte and is well suited for I/O-intensive workloads sensitive to storage performance. Snapshots are incremental backups of Amazon EBS volumes stored in Amazon S3. Amazon EBS volumes can be encrypted.
#### Exam Essentials
- Know the basics of launching an Amazon ec2 instance. To launch an instance, you must specify an AMI, which defines the software on the instance at launch, and an instance type, which defines the virtual hardware supporting the instance (memory, vCPUs, and so on).
- Know what architectures are suited for what Amazon ec2 pricing options. Spot Instances are best suited for workloads that can accommodate interruption. Reserved Instances are best for consistent, long-term compute needs. On-Demand Instances provide flexible compute to respond to scaling needs.
- Know how to combine multiple pricing options that result in cost optimization and scalability. On-Demand Instances can be used to scale up a web application running on Reserved Instances in response to a temporary traffic spike. For a workload with several Reserved Instances reading from a queue, it’s possible to use Spot Instances to alleviate heavy traffic in a cost-effective way. These are just two of countless examples where a workload may use different pricing options.
- Know the benefits of enhanced networking. Enhanced networking enables you to get significantly higher PPS performance, lower network jitter, and lower latencies.
- Know the capabilities of vm import/export. VM Import/Export allows you to import existing VMs to AWS as Amazon EC2 instances or AMIs. Amazon EC2 instances that were imported through VM Import/Export can also be exported back to a virtual environment.
- Know the methods for accessing an instance over the internet. You can access an Amazon EC2 instance over the web via public IP address, elastic IP address, or public DNS name. There are additional ways to access an instance within an Amazon VPC, including private IP addresses and ENIs.
- Know the lifetime of an instance store. Data on an instance store is lost when the instance is stopped or terminated. Instance store data survives an OS reboot.
- Know the properties of the Amazon EC2 pricing options. On-Demand Instances require no up-front commitment, can be launched any time, and are billed by the hour.
- Reserved Instances require an up-front commitment and vary in cost depending on whether they are paid all up front, partially up front, or not up front. Spot Instances are launched when your bid price exceeds the current spot price. Spot Instances will run until the spot price exceeds your bid price, in which case the instance will get a two-minute warning and terminate.
- Know what determines network performance. Every instance type is rated for low, moderate, high, or 10 Gbps network performance, with larger instance types generally having higher ratings. Additionally, some instance types offer enhanced networking, which provides additional improvement in network performance.
- Know what instance metadata is and how it’s obtained. Metadata is information about an Amazon EC2 instance, such as instance ID, instance type, and security groups, that is available from within the instance. It can be obtained through an HTTP call to a specific IP address.
- Know how security groups protect instances. Security groups are virtual firewalls controlling traffic in and out of your Amazon EC2 instances. They are deny by default, and you can allow traffic by adding rules specifying traffic direction, port, protocol, and destination address (via Classless Inter-Domain Routing [CIDR] block). They are applied at the instance level, meaning that traffic between instances in the same security group must adhere to the rules of that security group. They are stateful, meaning that an outgoing rule will allow the response without a correlating incoming rule.
- Know how to interpret the effect of security groups. When an instance is a member of multiple security groups, the effect is a union of all the rules in all the groups.
- Know the different Amazon ebs volume types, their characteristics, and their appropriate workloads. Magnetic volumes provide an average performance of 100 IOPS and can be provisioned up to 1 TB. They are good for cold and infrequently accessed data.
- General-purpose SSD volumes provide three IOPS/GB up to 10,000 IOPS, with smaller volumes able to burst 3,000 IOPS. They can be provisioned up to 16 TB and are appropriate for dev/test environments, small databases, and so forth. Provisioned IOPS SSD can provide up to 20,000 consistent IOPS for volumes up to 16 TB. They are the best choice for workloads such as large databases executing many transactions. 
- Know how to encrypt an Amazon ebs volume. Any volume type can be encrypted at launch. Encryption is based on AWS KMS and is transparent to applications on the attached instances.
- Understand the concept and process of snapshots. Snapshots provide a point-in-time backup of an Amazon EBS volume and are stored in Amazon S3. Subsequent snapshots are incremental—they only store deltas. When you request a snapshot, the point-in-time snapshot is created immediately and the volume may continue to be used, but the snapshot may remain in pending status until all the modified blocks have been transferred to Amazon S3. Snapshots may be copied between regions.
- Know how Amazon ebs-optimized instances affect Amazon ebs performance. In addition to the IOPS that control the performance in and out of the Amazon EBS volume, use Amazon EBS-optimized instances to ensure additional, dedicated capacity for Amazon EBS I/O.